---
layout: default
title: "Islam and its merits"
author: "Instagram@Alsalafiyyah"
permalink: /introduction/
---


All praise is due to Allah. May peace and blessings be upon the Last Prophet. Allah, the Exalted, states, "This day, I have perfected your religion for you, completed My Favour upon you, and have chosen for you Islâm as your religion." [al-Maidah: 3] Allah (Glorified be He) also says: Truly, the religion with Allâh is Islâm. Allah (Glorified be He) also says: And whoever seeks a religion other than Islâm, it will never be accepted of him, and in the Hereafter he will be one of the losers." [Aal Imran: 85]

Islam is to submit to Allah by Tawhid (belief in the Oneness of Allah/monotheism), yielding to Him by obedience and leaving acts of Shirk (associating others with Allah in His Divinity or worship) and those who commit Shirk. Shirk was the belief of the Arabs before the advent of the Da`wah (calling to Islam) of Muhammad (peace be upon him). It is narrated by Al-Bukhari that Abu Raja' Al-`Utaridy said, we used to worship a certain stone, but if we found a better stone, we would throw the first stone away and worship the other one. If we did not find any stone to worship, we would grasp a handful of dust, pour goat milk over it, then we would circumambulate it. Islam is to submit to Allah by Tawhid (belief in the Oneness of Allah/monotheism), yielding to Him by obedience and leaving acts of Shirk (associating others with Allah in His Divinity or worship) and those who commit Shirk. Shirk was the belief of the Arabs before the advent of the Da`wah (calling to Islam) of Muhammad (peace be upon him). It is narrated by Al-Bukhari that Abu Raja' Al-`Utaridy said, we used to worship a certain stone, but if we found a better stone, we would throw the first stone away and worship the other one. If we did not find any stone to worship, we would grasp a handful of dust, pour goat milk over it, then we would circumambulate it.

As for the condition of people before the Mission of the Prophet (peace be upon him), the Noble Qur'an referred to them in many Ayahs (Qur'anic verses). For example, when Allah the Glorified and Exalted, states, "And they worship besides Allâh things that harm them not, nor profit them, and they say: “These are our intercessors with Allâh.” [Yunus: 18], Allah (Glorified be He) also states, "And those who take Auliyâ’ (protectors, helpers, lords, gods) besides Him (say): “We worship them only that they may bring us near to Allâh.” [al-Zumar: 3]

Allah (Glorified be He) also says: "Verily, We made the Shayâtin (devils) Auliyâ’ (protectors and helpers) for those who believe not. And when they commit a Fâhishah (evil deed, going round the Ka‘bah in naked state, and every kind of unlawful sexual intercourse), they say: "We found our fathers doing it, and Allâh has commanded it on us." Say: "Nay, Allâh never commands Fâhishah. Do you say of Allâh what you know not?" [al-A'raf: 27-28] "...surely they took the Shayâtîn (devils) as Auliyâ’ (protectors and helpers) instead of Allâh, and think that they are guided." [al-A'raf: 30] 

Allah (Glorified be He) also says: "And they assign to Allâh a share of the tilth and cattle which He has created, and they say: "This is for Allâh according to their claim, and this is for our (Allâh’s so-called) partners." But the share of their (Allâh’s so-called) "partners" reaches not Allâh, while the share of Allâh reaches their (Allâh’s so-called) "partners"! Evil is the way they judge!" [al-An'am: 136]

There are many Ayahs that express this meaning. Moreover, the authentic Hadiths narrated from the Messenger of Allah (peace be upon him) and the writings of the compilers of Sirah (the Prophet's biography), historians and trusted scholars on peoples' conditions mentioned that they had different forms of Shirk before the Mission of the Prophet (peace be upon him). Some would worship idols and sculptures. Others used to worship the dead, the sun, the moon, or the stars, etc. Therefore, the Messenger of Allah (peace be upon him) called them to worship Allah alone and abandon all false deities that they and their ancestors worshipped. Allah, the Glorified and Exalted, states, "Say (O Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم): "O mankind! Verily, I am sent to you all as the Messenger of Allâh - to Whom belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth. Lâ ilâha illa Huwa (none has the right to be worshipped but He). It is He Who gives life and causes death. So believe in Allâh and His Messenger (Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم), the Prophet who can neither read nor write (i.e. Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم), who believes in Allâh and His Words [(this Qur’ân), the Taurât (Torah) and the Injeel (Gospel) and also Allâh’s Word: "Be!" - and he was, i.e. ‘Isâ (Jesus) son of Maryam (Mary), عليهما السلام], and follow him so that you may be guided." [al-A'raf: 158] 

Allah (Glorified be He) also says: "(This is) a Book which We have revealed unto you (O Muhammad صلى الله عليه و سلم) in order that you might lead mankind out of darkness (of disbelief and polytheism) into light (of belief in the Oneness of Allâh and Islâmic Monotheism) by their Lord’s Leave to the Path of the All-Mighty, the Owner of all Praise." [Ibrahim: 1]

